Archive-name: graphics/resources-list/part2 Last-modified: /17 Computer Graphics Resource Listing WEEKLY POSTING Last Change 17 April 1993 
14. 
	Plotting packages Gnuplot It is one of the best 2- and plotting packages, with online 
help.It's a command-line driven interactive function plotting utility for UNIX, MSDOS, Amiga, Archimedes, and VMS 
platforms The comp.graphics.gnuplot newsgroup is devoted to discussion of Gnuplot. 
	Xvgr and Xmgr gr) Xmgr is an plotting tool for UNIX workstations using X or 
OpenWindows. 
	There is an XView version called xvgr for Suns. 
	Collectively, these 2 tools are known as gr. 
	Check at ftp.ccalmr.ogi.edu Xgobi It's being developed at Bellcore, and its speciality are multidimensional data 
sets analysis and exploration. 
	To get it via e-mail, send email to statlib@temper.stat.cmu.edu and in the body area of 
the message, put the line send xgobi from general If you want to pick it 
via ftp, connect to lib.stat.cmu.edu. 
	It's a set of fortran routines freely available that includes contour plots and support for 
various devices, including ps. 
	Features: ASCII import and export; EPS export; copy, cut, paste with data buffer; free number 
of data points, data buffer, and document window; selective open and save plotting in many 
styles; automatic legend; subviews; linear and logarithmic axes; two different axes; text and graphic; color 
support; zoom; normalizing and moving; axis conversions; free hand data manipulations background subtractions (linear,shirley,tougaard, bezier); 
integration and relative integration; fitting of one or more free defined functions; linear regression; calculations 
and large (super) alike. 
	Despite its small size and quickness, it has enough power to satisfy most users, including: 
standard x-y plots, semilog plots, log-log plots, contour plots, 3D plots, mesh plots, bar charts 
and pie charts. 
	Many different output device drivers are available (system dependent), including a portable metafile format and 
renderer. 
	It provides LaTEX quality fonts, as well as full support for Postscript fonts. 
	Image analysis software Image processing and display PC and Mac-based tools (multi-platform software) IMDISP IMDISP 
Written at JPL and other NASA sites. 
	Can read TIFF images, if you know their dimensions LabVIEW 2 LabVIEW is used as 
a framework for image processing tools. 
	Runs on HP9000 with Supports bit display" HIPS (Human Information Processing Laboratory's Image Processing System) 
Michael Landy co-wrote and sell a general-purpose package for image processing which has been used 
for basically all the usual image processing applications in precisely the same manner as single 
frames.