Archive-name: jpeg-faq Last-modified: 18 April 1993 This FAQ article discusses JPEG image compression. 
	New since version of 3 April 1993: New versions of Image Archiver and PMJPEG for 
This article includes the following sections: What is JPEG? 
	Why use JPEG? 
	When should I use JPEG, and when should I stick with GIF? 
	How well does JPEG compress images? 
	What are good "quality" settings for JPEG? 
	"canned" software, viewers, etc source code What's all this hoopla about color quantization? 
	Why all the argument about file formats? 
	If you don't get a reply, the server may be misreading your return address; add 
a line such as "path myname@mysite" to specify your correct e-mail address to reply to. 
	JPEG does not handle black-and-white bit-per-pixel) images, nor does it handle motion picture compression. 
	JPEG is "lossy", meaning that the image you get out of decompression isn't quite identical 
to what you originally put in The algorithm achieves much of its compression by exploiting 
known limitations of the human eye, notably the fact that small color details aren't perceived 
as well as small details of light-and-dark. 
	You can make *extremely* small files if you don't mind poor quality; this is useful 
for indexing image archives, making thumbnail views or icons, etc etc Conversely, if you aren't 
happy with the output quality at the default compression setting, you can jack up the 
quality until you are satisfied, and accept lesser compression. 
	Why use JPEG? 
	The other reason why JPEG will gradually replace GIF as a standard Usenet posting format 
is that JPEG can store full color information: 24 bits/pixel (16 million colors) instead of 
8 or less If you have only bit display hardware then this may not seem 
like much of an advantage to you. 
	When should I use JPEG, and when should I stick with GIF? 
	How well does JPEG compress images? 
	The first three files are for comparison purposes; the rest were created with the free 
JPEG software described in section 6B. 
	What are good "quality" settings for JPEG? 
	Most of the programs described in this section are available by FTP. 
	Why all the argument about file formats?