BR> From: wpr@atlanta.dg.com (Bill Rawlins) BR> Newsgroups: alt.atheism BR> Organization: DGSID, Atlanta, GA BR> Since 
you have referred to the Messiah, I assume you BR> are referring to the New 
Testament. 
	Have you considered Josephus, the Jewish BR> Historian, who also wrote of Jesus? 
	-7: "And he (Judas) cast down the pieces of silver in the temple, and departed, 
and went and hanged himself. 
	And the chief priests...bought with them the potter's field." Before the cock crow Matthew Before 
the cock crow twice Mark MAR And the second time the cock crew. 
	And Peter called to mind the word that Jesus said unto him, Before the cock 
crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. 
	MAT Then began he to curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man. 
	Verily, verily, I say unto thee, The cock shall not crow, still thou hast denied 
me thrice. 
	scarlet Matthew purple John Mark says the third hour, or 9 a.m., but John says 
the sixth hour (noon) was when the sentence was passed. 
	Matthew This is Jesus the king of the Jews Mark The King of the Jews 
Luke This is the king of the Jews John Jesus of Nazareth the king of 
the Jews vinegar Matthew wine with myrrh Mark Matthew said many stood far off, including 
Mary Magdaline, Mary the mother of James, and the mother of Zebedee's children. 
	,50: "And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, "Eli, eli, 
lama sabachthani?" that is to say, "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?" 
...Jesus, when he cried again with a loud voice, yielded u the ghost." Luke23:46: "And 
when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, "Father, unto thy hands I 
commend my spirit:" and having said thus, he gave up the ghost." John19:30: "When Jesus 
therefore had received the vinegar, he said, "It is finished:" and he bowed his head, 
and gave up the ghost." Matthew says that the veil of the temple was rent, 
that there was an earthquake, and that it was dark from the sixth to the 
ninth hour, that graves opened and bodies of the saints arose and went into Jeruselem, 
appearing to many (beating Jesus to the resurection). 
	Matthew says the Jews asked Pilate for a guard to prevent the body from being 
stolen by the disciples, and for the tomb to be sealed. 
	Depends where you look; Matthew gives Jesus prophesying that he will spend "three days and 
three nights in the heart of the earth", and Mark has "after three days (meta 
treis emeras) he will rise again". 
	JOH The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet 
dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre. 
	LUK And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men 
stood by them in shining garments: JOH And seeth two angels in white sitting, the 
one at the head, and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus 
had lain Matthew says the guard was paid to tell this story, but no other 
gospel makes this claim. 
	Matthew says an angel at the tomb told the two Marys and that Jesus also 
told them, to tell the disciples to meet him in Galilee.