There are a couple of things about your post and others in this thread that 
are a little confusing. 
	An atheist is one for whom all things can be understood as processes of nature 
exclusively. 
	This definition does not include all atheists (see the FAQ). 
	However, I (for one) do think there is no need to invoke any divine or 
spiritual explanations. 
	It makes a big difference to claim that all things can be understood as natural 
processes, and to claim that our observations do not require us to postulate any divine 
intervention, or anything spiritual, for that matter. 
	There is no purpose or direction for any event beyond those required by physics, chemistry, 
biology, etc; everything is random, nothing is determnined. 
	If their apparent free will is an illusion, it does not appear to be so 
from their perspective. 
	This can still be a result of numerous happy accidents our genetic machinery blindly replicates 
and preserves. 
	Even that machinery can be result of the same principle only the systems that can 
start replicating will survive, those which don't don't make it. 
	(Recommended reading: t.o) For an atheist, no event can be preferred to another or be 
said to have more or less value than another in any naturalistic sense, and no 
thought -about- an event can have value. 
	I value events and things subjectively, from my perspective. 
	Nature does not have values, because it does not have a perspective values arise from 
awareness. 
	If I have a subjective perspective, it is easy to assume that other people also 
do, and if I think about what it would it be like in their position, 
I will eventually discover the Golden Rule. 
	What is the basis for criticizing the values ennumerated in the Bible or the purposes 
imputed to God? 
	Some others, like the basic idea of wanting to live, has probably its roots in 
the way our brains are wired. 
	A simple set of rules to hold the people together, under one god. 
	Any value judgement must be prefaced by the disclaimer that it is nothing more than 
a matter of personal opinion and carries no weight in any "absolute" sense. 
	Whenever there is an observer, there is a subjective point of view, which may value 
its existence and happiness (even if that were just a result of some physical event), 
and other's happiness, too, if the observer comes to think about it. 
	In an absolutely objective sense, that is, without any observers or subjects, moral judgments lose 
their meaning. 
	Once again, if god wants wives to submit to their husbands, or even to make 
a leap of faith into the unknown, or wants to punish us if we don't, 
I disagree with his morals.