Archive-name: rec-autos/part5 Commonly Asked Automotive Questions Tire Questions: Q: What do the funny numbers on 
the sides of my tires mean? 
	A: Typically, you will see something like the 195 is the overall width of the 
tire in millimeters, the tread is usually narrower. 
	The 60 is the `aspect ratio'; it indicates the height of the sidewall of the 
tire relative to the overall width. 
	The R means Radial, and the H is a speed rating indicating the highest speed 
at which the tire, when properly inflated and carrying an appropriate load, may safely operate. 
	Common speed ratings are S T H and V Recent changes to the method for 
specifying tire sizes move the speed rating to a different part of the designation; you 
may therefore find designations like 85H; the 85 indicates the per-tire load associated with the 
speed rating exceeding this load in continuous operation at the rated speed is dangerous practice. 
	What follows is a table showing a number of `load indices' and corresponding maximum per-tire 
loads: Load Index 50 51 88 89 112 113 145 149 157 Max Load (Kg) 
190 195 560 580 1120 1150 2900 3250 4125 Note that the usual mass vs 
weight confusion occurs in this table. 
	If no letter is given, then the application of the tire is Passenger car usage. 
	The primary risk of putting the snow tires on the front only is that if 
you have to put on the brakes while going downhill, you run a serious risk 
of going downhill backwards. 
	A: Because questions about detectors and speed limits crossposted between misc.consumers and rec.autos.* always start 
long, tedious, and pointless flame wars. 
	A: Preliminary statistics suggest the following: Airbags work much better than no belts; good 3 
point belts alone work much better than Airbags alone, and AirBags 3 point belts work 
slightly better than 3 point belts alone. 
	Q: They tell me I should downshift when braking to slow my car down. 
	In modern disc brake equipped cars, use of downshifting to slow the car is not 
really necessary, except in cases of long, steep downhill runs. 
	Traditional brake fluids tend to absorb water; this water can corrode internal parts of the 
brake system and also lower the boiling point of the fluid. 
	Q: ABS is available on some of the cars m looking at, but it costs 
more. 
	Q: Do fuel treatments help?