Archive-name: graphics/resources-list/part3 Last-modified: /27 Computer Graphics Resource Listing WEEKLY POSTING Last Change 27 April 1993 
11. 
	Scene generators/geographical data/Maps/Data files DEMs (Digital Elevation Models) DEMs (Digital Elevation Models) as well as 
other cartographic data is available from spectrum.xerox.com /pub/map. 
	Contact: Lee Moore Webster Research Center, Xerox Corp Voice: +1 /pub/dems nfotis Many of these 
files are also available on selled by USGS: , scale Digital Line Graph (DLG) Data". 
	The Data User Services Division of the Bureau of the Census also has data on 
(TSO standard format) that is derived from USGS ,000 map data. 
	This chart consists of over gigabytes of reasonable quality vector data distributed on four .... 
	includes coastlines, rivers, roads, railrays, airports,cities, towns, spot elevations, and depths, and over place names." 
It is ISO9660 compatible and only available from: Geological Survey Box 25286 Denver Federal Center 
Denver, CO 80225 Digital Distribution Services Energy, Mines, and Resources Canada 615 Booth Street Ottawa, 
ON K1A 0E9 Canada Director General of Military Survey (Survey 3) Elmwood Avenue Feltham, Middlesex 
TW13 7AH United Kingdom Director of Survey, Australian Army Department of Defense Campbell Park Offices 
Many of the programs are available from the FTP sites and mail archive servers. 
	It uses a PHIGS extension known as polyline sets for performance, but you can use 
regular polylines. 
	The raw data at Stanford require the vplot package to be able to view it. 
	(softlab@cs.unc.edu) The data sets (volume I and II) are also available via anonymous FTP from 
omicron.cs.unc.edu in pub/softlab/CHVRTD NASA Many US agencies such as NASA publish ROMs with many altimetry 
data from various space missions, eg. 
	Earth Sciences Data There's a listing of anonymous FTP sites for earth science data, including 
imagery. 
	Check out anonymous FTP to ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu in PolyView/alpha-shape for a tool that creates convex hulls 
alpha-shapes (a generalization of the convex hull) from 3D point sets. 
	Code for viewing ADRG (Arc Digitised Raster Graphics) files is available on the GRIPS II 
The Army Engineer Topographic Labs (Juan Perez) code is also available via FTP adrg.zip archive 
in spectrum.xerox.com NRCC range data Rioux M., Cournoyer L. 
	Suite South Pasadena, CA -88, Fax soon in bit TIFF format. 
	Image annotation software a. 
	GIS (Geographical Information Systems software) GRASS (Geographic Resource Analysis Support System) of the US Army 
Construction Engineering Research Lab (CERL).