Archive-name: atheism/faq Alt-atheism-archive-name: faq Last-modified: 5 April 1993 Version: Alt.Atheism Frequently-Asked Questions This file contains 
responses to articles which occur repeatedly in alt.atheism. 
	Points covered here are ones which are not covered in the "Introduction to Atheism"; you 
are advised to read that article as well before posting. 
	These answers are not intended to be exhaustive or definitive. 
	If you have something to say concerning one of these questions and which isn't covered 
by the answer given, please feel free to make your point. 
	Overview of contents: "What is the purpose of this newsgroup?" "Hitler was an atheist!" "The 
Bible proves it" "Pascal's Wager" "What is Occam's Razor?" "Why it's good to believe in 
Jesus" "Why I know that God exists" "Einstein and "God does not play dice"" "Everyone 
worships something" "Why there must be a causeless cause" "The universe is so complex it 
must have been designed" "Independent evidence that the Bible is true" "Godel's Incompleteness Theorem" "George 
Bush on atheism and patriotism" "I know where hell is!" "Biblical contradictions wanted" "The USA 
is a Christian nation" "The USA is not a Christian nation" Subject: What is the 
purpose of this newsgroup? 
	Typical posting: Why have a newsgroup about atheism? 
	Why do atheists organize in groups? 
	Response: Many things are discussed here, including: Whether it is reasonable to feign theism in 
order to avoid upsetting one's family Prayer in schools Discrimination against atheists Sunday trading laws 
The Satanic Child Abuse myth Whether one should be an overt atheist or 'stay in 
the closet' How religious societies prey (sic) on new college students How to get rid 
of unwanted proselytizers Whether religion is a danger to society and/or the individual Why people 
become atheists Of course, inevitably alt.atheism tends to attract evangelical Christians looking for someone to 
convert. 
	Therefore, let every man be active, each in his own denomination if you please, and 
let every man take it as his first and most sacred duty to oppose anyone 
who in his activity by word or deed steps outside the confines of his religious 
community and tries to butt into the other. 
	It's also entirely possible that Hitler was lying when he claimed to believe in God. 
	Response: Most of the readers of alt.atheism feel that the Bible is of questionable accuracy, 
as it was written thousands of years ago by many authors who were recording oral 
tradition that existed many years before. 
	Response: This argument is known as Pascal's Wager. 
	One problem with this approach, in the abstract, is that it creates information from no 
information. 
	In its original form, it said "Do not multiply entities unnecessarily." That is, if you 
can explain something without supposing the existence of some entity, then do so. 
	Response: Godel's First Incompleteness Theorem says that in any consistent formal system which is sufficiently 
expressive that it can model ordinary arithmetic, one can formulate expressions which can never be 
proven to be valid or invalid ('true' or 'false') within that formal system.