Archive-name: atheism/logic Alt-atheism-archive-name: logic Last-modified: 5 April 1993 Version: Constructing a Logical Argument Although there 
is much argument on Usenet, the general quality of argument found is poor. 
	This article attempts to provide a gentle introduction to logic, in the hope of improving 
the general level of debate. 
	Logic is the science of reasoning, proof, thinking, or inference Logic allows us to analyze 
a piece of reasoning and determine whether it is correct or not (valid or invalid). 
	Of course, one does not need to study logic in order to reason correctly; nevertheless, 
a little basic knowledge of logic is often helpful when constructing or analyzing an argument. 
	The matter is very much open for debate. 
	A proposition is a statement which is either true or false; for example, "It is 
raining" or "Today is Tuesday". 
	The proposition is the meaning of the statement, not the particular arrangement of words used 
to express it. 
	These are called the premises of the argument. 
	They are the evidence or reasons for accepting the argument and its conclusions. 
	If something doesn't seem obvious to you, don't be afraid to question it. 
	There are various forms of valid inference. 
	For example: Every event has a cause (premise) The universe has a beginning (premise) All 
beginnings involve an event (premise) This implies that the beginning of the universe involved an 
event (inference) Therefore the universe has a cause (inference and conclusion) Note that the conclusion 
of one argument might be a premise in another argument. 
	In everyday English the term "fallacy" is used to refer to mistaken beliefs as well 
as to the faulty reasoning that leads to those beliefs. 
	ARGUMENTUM AD BACULUM (APPEAL TO FORCE) The Appeal to Force is committed when the arguer 
resorts to force or the threat of force in order to try and push the 
acceptance of a conclusion. 
	The Abusive variety of Argumentum ad Hominem occurs when, instead of trying to disprove the 
truth of an assertion, the arguer attacks the person or people making the assertion.