Archive-name: atheism/introduction Alt-atheism-archive-name: introduction Last-modified: 5 April 1993 Version: -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE----- An Introduction 
to Atheism by mathew <mathew@mantis.co.uk> This article attempts to provide a general introduction to atheism. 
	Whilst I have tried to be as neutral as possible regarding contentious issues, you should 
always remember that this document represents only one viewpoint. 
	To provide a sense of cohesion and progression, I have presented this article as an 
imaginary conversation between an atheist and a theist. 
	Some other frequently asked questions are answered in a companion article. 
	So when I talk of religion, I am talking primarily about religions such as Christianity, 
Judaism and Islam, which involve some sort of superhuman divine being. 
	"What is atheism?" Atheism is characterized by an absence of belief in the existence of 
God. 
	Some atheists go further, and believe that God does not exist. 
	The former is often referred to as the "weak atheist" position, and the latter as 
"strong atheism". 
	Not believing that something is true is not equivalent to believing that it is false; 
one may simply have no idea whether it is true or not. 
	For example, many people use agnosticism to mean "weak atheism", and use the word "atheism" 
only when referring to "strong atheism". 
	Many atheists feel that the idea of God as presented by the major religions is 
essentially self-contradictory, and that it is logically impossible that such a God could exist. 
	If we assume that something does not exist, it is always possible to show that 
this assumption is invalid by finding a single counter-example. 
	Even theists follow this rule most of the time; they don't believe in unicorns, even 
though they can't conclusively prove that no unicorns exist anywhere. 
	So whilst it may be impossible to prove conclusively that no God exists, it may 
be possible to prove that (say) a God as described by a particular religious book 
does not exist. 
	"How do atheists differ from religious people?" They don't believe in God.