This file and other text and image files from JPL missions are available from the 
JPL Info public access computer site, reachable by Internet via anonymous ftp to pubinfo.jpl.nasa.gov . 
	INTRODUCTION From our small world we have gazed upon the cosmic ocean for untold thousands 
of years. 
	They called these objects planets, meaning wanderers, and named them after Roman deities Jupiter, king 
of the gods; Mars, the god of war; Mercury, messenger of the gods; Venus, the 
god of love and beauty, and Saturn, father of Jupiter and god of agriculture. 
	But the years since 1959 have amounted to a golden age of solar system exploration. 
	Advancements in rocketry after World War II enabled our machines to break the grip of 
Earth's gravity and travel to the Moon and to other planets. 
	The United States has sent automated spacecraft, then human-crewed expeditions, to explore the Moon. 
	Future historians will likely view these pioneering flights through the solar system as some of 
the most remarkable achievements of the 20th century. 
	For the early planetary reconnaissance missions, NASA employed a highly successful series of spacecraft called 
the Mariners. 
	Between 1962 and 1975, seven Mariner missions conducted the first surveys of our planetary neighbors 
in space. 
	Four NASA spacecraft in all two Pioneers and two Voyagers were sent in the 1970s 
to tour the outer regions of our solar system. 
	Twin Viking Landers were equipped to serve as seismic and weather stations and as biology 
laboratories. 
	The Pioneer Venus Orbiter was equipped with a radar instrument that allowed it to "see" 
through the planet's dense cloud cover to study surface features. 
	The probes and the main body all of which contained scientific instruments radioed information about 
the planet's atmosphere during their descent toward the surface. 
	A new generation of automated spacecraft including Magellan, Galileo, Ulysses, Mars Observer, the Comet Rendezvous/Asteroid 
Flyby (CRAF) and Cassini is being developed and sent out into the solar system to 
make detailed examinations that will increase our understanding of our neighborhood and our own planet. 
	After a journey of nearly five months, which included a flyby of Venus, the spacecraft 
passed within 703 kilometers of the solar system's innermost planet on March 29, 1974.