Accounts of Anti-Armenian Human Right Violations in Azerbaijan #015 Prelude to Current Events in Nagorno-Karabakh 
. 
	They beat up the husband, dragged the wife outside, and stood her naked next to 
our burning things; her husband was lying at her feet on the ground. 
	The crowd shouted, "Look at the naked Armenian!" They were going to throw the poor 
woman into the fire...Mamma wouldn't allow it but I went to the window and saw 
her standing there, and they took skewers that had been heated in the fire and 
stuck them into her body. 
	DEPOSITIONS OF: ZINAIDA POGHOSOVNA HAKOPIAN Born 1937 Dispatcher Kavkazenergoremont Electric Booster Station Her daughters GAYANE 
(GAYA) VAZGENOVNA HAKOPIAN Born 1970 Orderly Sumgait Municipal Hospital No. 
	3 Sumgait -Zinaida: On March 20 we arrived in Yerevan, and the next day they 
registered us at the train station and took us to the boarding house. 
	I don't know how everyone else feels about it, but for me it's torture. 
	We don't have a place to call our own. 
	I had a two bedroom apartment in Sumgait, my children went to school and we 
lived well, in friendship. 
	It's painful that in our times, in 1988, in the Soviet period, people can break 
into our apartment and try to kill me and my children, in whom ve put 
all my efforts and my whole youth. 
	On February 27 our relative, Ira, came to visit us. 
	She's better friends with my oldest daughter, and so right away she asked, "Where's Vika?" 
I say, "Vika's off in Pirkuli on a trip for three days, she's supposed to 
come back tomorrow." My middle daughter, Gaya, had baked a cake and we sat there 
talking and laughing, drinking tea. 
	-Gayane: That day, on the 27th, we stood on the balcony and observed what was 
happening, although Mamma wouldn't allow us to watch all of it. 
	If they found an Armenian on the bus, then it started . 
	And you couldn't go anywhere, somehow . 
	He ran under our balcony, and the mob surged toward him shouting, "He's an Armenian, 
get him!" He wore a black coat. 
	They beat up the husband, dragged the wife outside, and stood her naked next to 
our burning things; her husband was lying at her feet on the ground.