Accounts of Anti-Armenian Human Right Violations in Azerbaijan #012 Prelude to Current Events in Nagorno-Karabakh 
I saw a naked girl with her hair down. 
	They were dragging her. 
	She fell down, it was muddy there, and later other witnesses who saw it from 
their balconies told us, they seized her by the hair and dragged her a couple 
of blocks, as far as the mortgage bank, that's a good block and a half 
or two from here. 
	I know this for sure because I saw it myself. 
	DEPOSITION OF TATYANA MIKHAILOVNA ARUTUNIAN (NEZHINTSEVA) Born 1932 Train Conductor Azerbaijani Railroad Resident at Building 
Apartment 27 Microdistrict No. 
	3 Sumgait I hadn't lived very long in Sumgait, only eight years. 
	Later I met someone and married him, and now my name is Arutunian, my husband's 
name . 
	That there would be a massacre was not discussed openly, but there were hints and 
gibes, so to speak, at the Armenian people, and they were mocking the Russians, too. 
	And when I asked for decent working conditions they told me, "Leave, don't keep the 
others from working, you aren't cut out for this kind of work." And at work 
and around all the time I would hear gibes at the Armenians, like "The Turks 
had it right, they killed them all--the way they've multiplied here they're making it hard 
for us to live," and "Things will be just fine if we get rid of 
them all." "No problem, the Turks will help," they say, "if we ask them, they'll 
rid Armenia of Armenians in half an hour." Well that's the way it all was, 
but I never thought, of course that it would spill over into a bloody tragedy, 
because you just couldn't imagine it. 
	Here we've been living under the Soviet government for 70 years, and no one even 
considered such an idea possible. 
	But I had been forming my own opinions, and in the presence of authoritative people 
I would often ask, "Where is this all leading, do people really not see what 
kind of situation is emerging here. 
	The Russians are fleeing Sumgait, there are very few of them left Why is no 
one dealing with this, what's going on?" And when it all happened on the 27th 
and 28th, it became clear that everything had been arranged by someone, because what else 
are you to make of it if the First Secretary of the City Party Committee 
is marching ahead of the demonstration with an Azerbaijani flag? 
	I went over to him and said, "Are you the First Secretary of our City 
Party Committee?" He answers me, "Yes." And I ask him, "Tell me, did you really 
march ahead of that gang carrying an Azerbaijani flag, and behind you they were carrying 
denigrating signs, I don't know exactly what they said, but there was mention of Armenian 
blood?" And he tells me, "Yes, I was there, but I tried to dissuade them 
from it." Then I asked him another question: "And where were you when they were 
burning and slaughtering us? 
	We didn't know what to do, we didn't know, we didn't anticipate that that would 
happen in Sumgait." Comrade Mamedov, the First Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers of 
the Azerbaijani SSR, answered the same question for me: "No, we actually didn't anticipate the 
slaughter in Sumgait. 
	And when he saw that they had started breaking the glass in that store, he 
said, "Don't break the shop windows, don't destroy state property, but do whatever else you 
want. 
	They were dragging her. 
	She fell down, it was muddy there, and later other witnesses who saw it from 
their balconies told us, they seized her by the hair and dragged her a couple 
of blocks, as far as the mortgage bank, that's a good block and a half 
or two from here. 
	I know this for sure because I saw it myself.